Another great conversation. I have
Sheila Bear of the FDIC and author of a
couple of books. Her most recent one,
How Not to Lose a Million Dollars. Uh
Sheila really has done more than just
about anybody to facilitate financial
literacy uh and education for not just
adults, but uh young young adults and
kids. through all of her writing. I
thought this conversation was tremendous
and I think you will also. With no
further ado, the former chairperson of
the FDIC, Sheila Bear.
>> Sheila Bear, welcome back to Bloomberg.
>> Thank you for having me.
>> So, uh, I want to start with a little
bit of background from you. Um, you get
a bachelor's in philosophy from the
University of Kansas, and then go to law
school at the same school, University of
Kansas, uh, where you got a JD. Yeah.
What was the career plan? Were you, did
you want to be a lawyer or what were you
thinking?
>> Well, um, I'm a native Kansas, grew up
in southeast Kansas, traditional Kansas
Republican family. The whole, we were
all Jay-Hawks. Dad went to medical
school, KU, mom went to nursing school,
my sister was a physical therapist. I
was a I didn't choose a medical
profession but did choose KU. So it's a
good school. It was an affordable
school. Um and I really didn't know what
I wanted to do. I was interested in
philosophy. I took a lot of courses in
English and economics too. Uh but
majored in philosophy and realized uh
pretty much as soon as I graduated I
wasn't going to get a very good job with
that degree. So
>> well you could always teach philosophy.
>> I could do that but I would have to get
a PhD and and probably go to school
longer than I wanted to do. uh do that.
So I decided to go to law school which
was a you know philosophy is a good
major if you're going to go into law
school because both disciplines are
about logical thinking analysis you know
good writing skills and uh so actually
the philosophy major was was good
preparation for law school.
>> Yeah say say the very least. So so your
career spans from uh government and
academia and finance really at the
highest levels across all three. Yeah.
>> What's the through line connecting
connecting each of these worlds? Um,
government, regulation, academia, and
finance.
>> Yeah.
>> Well, I have been I've had a I've done a
lot of different things in my career,
and I young people, I tell them, don't
try to pre-program your career and don't
be narrow-minded about opportunities.
And a lot of people stay in the same job
for 30, 40, 50 years. I respect that.
That's fine. That was never for me. I'm
always looking for new things. But I
guess my my first entree uh to the big
leagues or at least adjacent to the big
leagues was when I worked for Bob Dole
as his council first on the Senate
Judiciary Committee where I actually I
staffed him on the Voting Rights Act
compromise to title two of the Voting
Rights Act which is pretty much just
evviscerated by the Supreme Court which
was which was very u you know that was
my first big uh project for him. Uh so
that that's that hurts. But anyway, so I
then I went with uh to the leaders when
became majority leader, I went to the
majority leaders office with them and
handled a broader range of issues. Um
but that's that's really and then I was
on his 88 presidential campaign
actually. Um which obviously started in
1987. Those campaigns start a good year
before uh the primaries begin. And
that's where I started off as a civil
rights lawyer and did civil rights
issues and other things for him. But we
had the 1987 market crash in during the
time we were I was working for his
presidential campaign became a big
issue. I had to take a crash course in
stock markets and that's when I was
first exposed to finance and found that
I was really interested in it.
>> Really interesting. And I want to focus
on on some of your writing because
>> you're you've written for very different
age groups, demographics, right? So,
Bull by the Horns, obviously, uh, for
adults about the GFC.
>> Um, but the Money Tales uh, book series
is aimed at kids,
>> right?
>> And then the new book is really aimed at
at teenagers, people starting out,
>> right?
>> How different is it communicating
>> Yeah.
>> somewhat complex ideas to each is it the
same? Is it just making it
understandable? Or is it a different
approach for each group? It's a bit of a
different approach. I think you know
that the fact that I didn't really start
in finance that I segueed into it uh
working for the stock exchange then
later many other senior level jobs. I
had to start from scratch when I was
learning it and I had to learn it fast
and so but I think my own experience
helped me really break down and
understand and understand how to
approach understanding finance. And one
of the big issues is the terminology,
the jargon that we use in in the
financial industry. And that can be very
confusing and intimidating and I think
sometimes weaponized frankly uh by
people uh who are trying to sell a
product or service. So but yeah, I mean
I think my early uh need to really start
from scratch and learn it helped me
later break down and explain things. And
then I think also my philosophy major,
the the logical thinking, you know,
breaking things down into their
component parts, understanding the
causal connections, kind of laying it
out, uh, the analysis out for people in
an understandable way is something that
I've always tried hard to do and have
refined over the years. Um so but yeah
the my you know bull by the horns was
definitely it was written for a general
population but it talks a lot about
securization and in topics that make
might make some people's eyes glaze over
but for industry professionals I think
it was of interest but my children's
books um and actually I wrote another
book for teens called Bullies of Wall
Street which was a book about the the
financial crisis for teenagers and then
I have golly since 2006 six I've been
on, you know, as a sideline writing uh
picture books for children. And that
those are really fun because those are
fictionalized stories. I use rhyming
verse. They're just fun. You can be
creative because they're really about
basic concepts, you know, compounding
interest, risk, capital formation. Those
are things that really you can't explain
at a very b basic level uh for kids.
Ponzi schemes is one of them. Asset
bubbles is one. I I wrote one, it's
called Daisy Bubble. It's kind of riff
on the tulip bubble. Uh that occurred in
Hollywood hundreds of years ago. And uh
I I was concerned that kids were not
going to get this. And that's one of my
more popular books, especially with the
boys. There's a character named Slice
the oldest manipulating the Daisy
Market. And and u you know, I make that
very transparent in the book and they
enjoy that.
>> That's very that's very funny. My my
favorite part of Bull by the Horns is
just the really vivid detail you go into
in with the clashes with Tim Gy and Hank
Paulson.
>> Um, uh, if you could go back in time and
magically change any decision that was
made during the GFC,
>> what what was the wrong decision and how
would you fix it?
>> You mean during the crisis or in the
leadup to the crisis?
>> Um, either or. What what do you think
what do you think the big
>> issue? It's never one thing,
>> but if if so, let let's since I
mentioned Guyther and Paulson, what of
their decisions do you think was most
problematic that you would have liked to
reverse?
>> Yeah. Well, I think there should have
been more accountability. Uh I I do
think there should have been more
accountability. I think
>> meaning bankers Wall Street that helped
create
>> Yes. We should have let at least
provided more financial penalties even
if we weren't going to send people to
jail. I think the bailouts could have
been less generous. I am still outraged
that we let them pay bonuses at the end
of 2009. So I think that was you know
after giving them all this capital and
then once they you know got the benefit
of all these other programs and you know
re stabilize themselves to enable them
to pay that capital back so they could
pay bonuses at the end of 2009 when the
rest of the country was reeling in a
recession. No, I think we could have
been a lot tougher. So, but you know,
these things are all compromises and
actually it was more with Tim Gener than
Hank Pollson. He hank and I could
usually come to a common ground and we
did on issues where we uh started with
different different uh viewpoints. But
yeah, I mean I think there is a
perception of some that they were kind
of the Wall Street was the center of the
universe and the heartthrob of the
economy and we needed to take gender
loving care with it and all of that and
we need to do something. I'm not
suggesting we shouldn't have provided
some stabilization measures, but we
didn't have to. I think we really went
overboard and I do regret that and I
think people are still mad about it. I
think a lot of the polarization that we
have today stems from the the perception
on Main Street that not only did we bail
these guys out, but we bailed them out
very generously. I
>> I couldn't agree more. Let let me shock
listeners by saying
I think President Trump got something
right almost accidentally by taking a
piece of a company like Intel. My my big
complaint during the bailouts were, hey,
if you're going to give these publicly
traded companies a bailout and not send
them to bankruptcy court, well great.
take 40% of the company and promise to
sell it back to the public markets
within a decade, right?
>> And it would have cut the cost of
bailouts substantially and would have
hurt existing shareholders and
management who made a uh Yeah.
>> Uh who helped create the whole disaster.
>> That's exactly right. Yeah. No, I think
that was uh there was we did a little
bit of that but not enough because I
think there was just a visceral reaction
against being too tough. Um, so
>> when the alternative is that those that
handsome building downtown with the tall
columns and the judge who basically
says, "Uh, okay, you're now in
receiverhip." Like like when you look at
the next the next best alternative is
you're toast.
>> Okay, we'll give up 40% at a substantial
discount and stay live to fight another
day.
>> I couldn't agree more. We were they were
looking their baseline was what you know
how these companies had operated before
they got into trouble and my baseline
was you know bankruptcy was the
alternative. We did but it was uneven
too. So we put Fanny and Freddy into
conservatorship
>> and maybe they should have been put in
bankruptcy too, but they were the
statute provided for conservatorship
where they still, you know, language. So
they they got punished pretty well and
>> they didn't, you know, we were still
getting uh well now they're they're
allowed to keep their capital to build
their capital base, but the government's
made uh quite a bit of money uh since
then from that. AIG, poor AIG, you know,
they were is my they were effectively
put in conservatorship by the Fed and uh
and finally emerged from that. But you
know there was an unevenness too with
the way some of those entities were
treated versus for instance a city group
which
>> right
>> you know what else can we do to help you
city group I was it was
>> for the third time fourth time they're
like every generation they're back
they're back with their hat in hands
>> and they will be again
>> we need a few billion right
>> I'm I'm I'm rooting for but you know
historically you know he's going to be
back
>> so so I'm kind of fascinated by
over the course of your career you have
spanned three distinct cycles of
deregulation right
>> so we had Graham Leachch Blly which
certainly was a major factor
>> that led to the GFC
>> yes it was
>> um uh we have the entire
um
DoddFrank um deregulation of of the
decade uh the past decade and then
everything that's
>> like all the carveouts and and then most
recently reducing the amount of net cap
uh in reserve that banks have to hold.
>> Yeah, that's that's ongoing.
>> So So why do we keep having these
crises? Is it structural? Is it the
American political system? It seems like
we're constantly repeating these cycles
over and over.
>> Well, we are. And deregulation was a big
part of the crisis. Nobody wants to say
that. Or just lack of regulation. The
Fed and Bernanki and Greensman have both
said this. The Fed had the authority to
write lending standards, mortgage
lending standards for the entire
industry. Problem is, most of these
mortgages are being originated by
non-banks. The banks were funding it,
right? But they were providing the the
conduit funding to get them in
scarizations.
>> But the Fed had the power to to stop
that and just flat out refute, oh, we
don't want to constrain credit. If I
hear that once, I think those are, you
know, Warren Buffett once said the most
dangerous world words in in finance.
Everybody else is doing it. I think it's
we're going to expand access to credit.
I swear to God because it is used as an
excuse for so many terrible
decisions.
>> Didn't Greenspan say we don't want to
stifle innovation in the finance market?
>> Well, that's those are dangerous words,
too. I don't want to stifle innovation
either, but it's just used as an excuse.
Oh, you know, like we got we got to
reduce capital to get more lending out
there when I would argue there's too
much lending out there already. We're
seeing all the cockroaches screwing out
now. So, uh so yeah. So it was and
derivatives as you said Graham H Blly
broke down the it created these too big
to fail institutions that all got bailed
out but also derivatives uh they
basically decision was that nobody needs
to regulate derivatives markets the the
theory was well the big banks were
dealers the derivatives dealers they're
regulated by the bank regulators so we
don't need market regulation and that
did not turn out so well because the
thing about the mortgage crisis was
there were hundreds and billions of of
of mortgages going bad but there were
trillions and trillions of financial
engineering on top of how those
mortgages would would perform and that's
really what got us at the end of the
day. Um, yeah, there were a lot of
mortgages that never should have been
made, but the system could have absorbed
those underlying losses. It was it was
the derivatives on top of that that
really brought things down suddenly.
>> So, so let's talk a little bit about um
finance. Uh the world has really gotten
kind of uh interesting in terms of um
we're still seem to be dealing with the
echoes of the financial crisis.
>> It's amazing. It's almost 20 years ago
and yet uh things like uh when SVB,
Silicon Valley Bank, and and Signature
Bank failed in 2003, people started to
get concerned about um systemic risk.
Even though these are kind of two minor
>> that was not those are not systemic
reaction
>> systemically important financial
institutions they and yet in order to
cover uninsured depositors.
>> Yeah.
>> Um who regest people among the richest
people in the country.
>> G I wonder if there's I wonder if that's
just a total coincidence or if uh some
upset people made some phone calls.
>> Yeah. I I was appalled
>> cuz if your local credit union goes out
and it's and you're uh
>> you're taking a loss if you're an
uninsured depositor or a community bank.
Yeah, you bet.
>> But if you're a Silicon Valley VC and
you're connected, you you get
>> stable coin issuer. Yeah, it's funny.
The Biden administration was doing
everything they could to kill crypto on
one hand and then they bail out one of
the biggest they the biggest stable coin
issuers uh who had what couple two and a
half billion or so of uninsured
deposits. Really irresponsible on their
part to put that much of their reserves
in uninsured deposits but they were
bailed out. I couldn't believe it. I
wrote a very strong piece in the
Financial Times after it happened.
>> I you know it was just this knee-jerk
bailout bailout bailout especially if
they're rich powerful people. I don't I
was just I was appalled. I'm still
appalled. I was It was It was 200
billion. It was not systemic. It had
good assets. If they had they should
have tried to find a buyer quickly
>> like Washington Mutual.
>> Yeah. So, but there was I think nobody
said this, but my suspicion is there was
kind of this Biden administration
religious uh adversity to to you know,
bank mergers and acquisitions. Like, we
can't make banks bigger. So, instead of
quickly trying to market and sell it,
they didn't do that. And uh but if even
if they hadn't if they just put it into
a bridge bank they had good assets. They
probably could have paid 85 90 cents on
the dollar to the
>> Didn't someone else come along and buy
all the assets anyway?
>> Well, yeah. Yeah.
>> So the merger happened regardless
>> but but it cost the FDA was 171 18
billion the deposit insurance fund. It
was it was outrageous. I'm I'm still a
gas that that even happened. uh and then
you know and uh you know it annoys me
with my Democrat friends who pretend
that the Republicans are ones that are
pro industry and pro bailout and then
they do something like that. So go
figure.
>> So let's talk about something else
that's a potential issue. Private credit
has exploded in the past decade. It's
now over $2 trillion. And while we have
all of these private non-bank credit
funds, they're all being funded by
regulated banks. Uh, is this just
regulatory arbitrage?
>> Well, it is in a not but not in the way
that I think the banks u sound bites
make it sound. So their their sound bite
is is that the capital regulations are
too ownorous much tougher than they are
for these private funds which is
nonsense. Private funds are much less
levered than banks, right? Banks are,
you know, on a on a non-risisk weighted
basis. You know, bank these big banks
are operating with 68% capital funding,
equity fund funding. So, it's not
>> it's not like they're they have tougher
capital requirements.
>> The problem is these riskbased rules,
and this is exactly what was going on in
subprime, too. through the riskbased
rules, through the magic of securization
structures and quote unquote
overcolateralization,
you can lend to a private fund and the
private fund will give you collateral.
They'll give you their loans and they'll
say they'll be valued at 150% of of what
your loan is, right? So that you're way
over collateralized. And if you do it
that way, the capital rules will give
you a very favorable capital treatment.
So you can use a lot of leverage
increasing your return on equity with
that by lending to the fund. If you make
the loan directly to the highly levered
business who the fund is lending to,
you've got a very very high capital
charge.
>> And so the argument is well you're
directly exposed to this highly levered
business. So you know you need to have
it tougher than if you just uh lend to
the fund. The problem is that you're
basically allowing banks to lend and
fund indirectly highly risky mortgages
that they would not do or not be
permitted to do frankly if they were
doing it directly. And that's exactly
what was going on with subprime. These
horrible unaffordable mortgages
pedled to a lot of people didn't
understand what they were getting. The
banks were funding that through their
their credit lines and their warehouse
funding to you know provide the provide
the money to the originators packing
them up with securization and selling
them and and again the capital required
for that was much much less than than
actually making a mortgage yourself and
holding it. So it it's really is the
same basic flaw in how the riskbased
capital rules work. I would just say you
can't fund a mortg a loan directly or
indirectly that doesn't meet prudent
underwriting standards because what
happens is the banks from a societal
standpoint the banks are funding a lot
of really risky loans that if they go
bad can have broader
bad adverse ramifications for the
economy. uh but they don't look at it
that way and in point of fact there are
pending cap rules now that will make it
even more favorable for these banks to
be lending to these intermediary funds
as opposed to lending directly. So
that's what's driving this not because
banks have much tougher capital rules
than than private funds. That is not
true. It's just that it's they can use
more leverage to lend to the fund
directly than to lend to the business
itself. Here's what the banks say, and I
don't necessarily believe this, but it's
not completely unc unconscionable. They
say when we were securitizing
loans during the financial crisis,
uh, lending standards had been
completely abdicated in all of these no
income check, no job check, just, you
know, sign and pray
>> and then, oh, it'll all come out in the
in the collateralization and the
syndication. We'll spread the risk
around, right? Um this is hey these are
we're lending money to firms that have
been in operation for 10 20 years and
names like Apollo and Carlile and
Blackstone who are trying to get a
return uh on investment and this sounds
a little familiar you know they would
never put their reputations or their
names at risk by doing anything too
stupid and besides uh the the default
rates have been really low and it's
highly
>> spread out across sectors. and
geographies.
>> Is that a fair argument or
>> it it is a fair argument and I'm not
saying private credit is legitimate
asset class. I I don't and I don't think
it's systemic primarily because you
don't have all this financial
engineering sitting on top of it. I do
think they've been making some really
risky loans. There are a lot of
conflicts of interest involved since a
lot of the private credit funds are
affiliated with the private equity
funds. They're lending to the private
equity portfolio companies. And this is
a particular problem actually. I I'm
more I think this is an investor
protection issue more than systemic
issue. I really do.
>> And for sophisticated investors, I think
private credit is absolutely a
legitimate asset class. You know, got to
understand it's not regulated. You don't
really know what the loans are worth,
right? So there's there's a big problem
with getting a proper valuation on the
assets. Not a lot of transparency uh for
retail or even high wealth high net
worth individuals. There's liquidity
issue, right? the business model doesn't
really work unless most of the capital
is locked in
>> and and frankly there's a a lot of
research questioning whether it really
provides better returns. You the S&P 500
has been kicking it for for several
years now. So, you know, so there there
are a lot of questions, but for
sophisticated investors, you know, go
forth and do it. And it's I don't think
it's systemic, but I do and I do worry
about these life insurance companies and
the annuitants because the um again
you've got a private equity owned life
insurance affiliate, you've got the
private credit affiliate, you've got the
life insurance affiliate lending to the
private credit affiliate, you're using
these third party credit raers uh to
make sure you know it's all at arms
length,
>> but to Yeah. uh and that the BIS did a
study about a year ago on this and there
others have taken a look at these
valuations and they're finding
significant evidence of inflated values.
So I I do think we need to protect at
the retail level we need to there need
to be some not expanding access to this.
>> So you're not a fan of private equity or
private debt in 401ks?
>> No, I am not. As a matter of fact, I am
not. You know what if you want to
there's a p you want to buy a stock in
KKR go for it. you know, you might check
how it's been performing. I and actually
I don't know how it's been performing,
but I'm just saying there are public, if
you really want exposure, there are, you
know, publicly traded BDC's now. There
are publicly traded BDCs. There are
public ways to do it.
>> There are some funds uh 40 act funds
that do uh invest a small percentage in
alternatives too. So there there are
ways now, but yeah, opening it up for
directly for retail, especially 401ks to
uh to start, you know, loading up on
this on this asset class, I think is
really problematic. And I do worry that,
you know, the the the the plan sponsors,
the fund sponsors, uh the 401k sponsors
are going to be getting the hard cell
about, you know, putting this stuff, uh
into people's 401ks. And uh I and I
again I don't think retail I know I
don't I I don't want exposure to it.
I've read enough to make me really
worried about it. So I think really
sophisticated big institutions which
have traditionally been their investor
base they want to do it fine but no it's
not right for retail and it it shouldn't
be going into 401ks and I'm yeah I'm
very worried about that. And to put some
numbers on what you uh had referenced
about the performance, um the median
alternative fund doesn't do all that
great. It's not that diversified and it
doesn't outperform the S&P 500. Hey, if
you're lucky enough to get into a top
desile fund,
>> you're you're going to kill it, but it's
going to take a couple hundred million
dollars. Exactly. To have access to
that. Yeah. The retail people are not
going to be getting the crim on this.
No, that's and that's a huge issue.
They're going to stuff the the riskier
stuff into the 401ks.
>> It makes a lot of sense. So So we've
talked about everything but too big to
fail, right?
>> Um which was a big part of uh the leadup
to the fin financial crisis and how um
the Fed, the FDI, everybody dealt with
it afterwards.
As an example, JP Morgan Chase now has
over 4 trillion with a T in assets. Can
a bank that size be effectively
regulated? Is is too big to fail the
norm now?
>> Oh, I think so. It absolutely is. I
mean, I I worked hard in DoddFrank to
come up with res, you know, to instill
more better authorities to put these
large institutions into a resolution
type process where you would impose that
accountability. You could fire the top
management, the boards, and impose, you
know, make the shareholders and bond
holders uh unsecured creditors, uh
absorb the losses, all the stuff we
didn't do during the crisis.
>> You mean normal bankruptcy rules?
>> Yeah, exactly. Yeah. Well, what's this?
It's similar to the FDI process, which
is basically a bankruptcy process and
and title two and DoddFrank, excuse
DoddFrank provides for both a title two
mechanism, which is FDIC run and a
bankruptcy process, a title one process.
So, the tools are there, but I don't I
don't think there's any I I I I hate to
say this, but I don't think there's any
chance they'd ever use it. I really
don't. I think they're going to bail out
again. They already they already do.
They'll they'll set up special lending
facilities or ratchet interest rates
down. You know, they'll if if you know,
private equity. So, actually, I worry
more about private equity than private
credit because private equity funds are
heavily exposed to software companies,
which
>> we don't know how that's going to shake
out, but there's a quite a bit of
concentration there. So, you know, so
but if that sector gets into trouble,
you know, the Fed will lend to the banks
who can then lend to the funds. I mean,
that's that's just the way I think it
works now. And I think a lot of the push
for even ever more deregulation, lower
capital rules is based on the assumption
of the big bank lobbyist that they're
never going to go down. There's another
kurfuffle, another problem. The Fed's
just going to open up the spigot again.
So, you know, why should they have to
operate with all this capital when they
can lower their capital and get much
higher returns on equity? And I do think
that's that's the unspoken uh rationale
because it doesn't make any sense
otherwise because we've got a lot of
uncertainties in the banking system
right now to be lowering capital uh
makes no sense unless you're just
banking on a bailout if things get
dicey. Le let's talk about a financial
crisis that really has gotten a lot of
short shrift given everything else we
just discussed which is the student debt
crisis. We've seen just an explosion of
student loans. It was briefly and
defaults. It was briefly put on pause uh
during the pandemic and right
afterwards. Uh, I just saw a survey
earlier today that said 83%
of young people say this is a bad
economy when by most historical measures
it's a booming economy.
>> Um, so so how did we get here? Why is it
so difficult to fix?
>> What is a potential policy solution to
the student debt crisis?
>> Yeah. Well, and I I think the headline
numbers are in this K-shaped economy, I
think the headline numbers can be can be
misleading because you got to look at
how how all that wealth is being
distributed. But I think for student
debt, I I will give credit to the Trump
administration in Congress, the the BBB,
the big beautiful bill. I hate that
name, but it had some really important
reforms to the student loan system. So,
they've dramatically simplified the
repayment options. There's now a
standard plan and one income-based
repayment plan. They have imposed some
accountability on colleges which
desperately needed to be done. So it's
easier to kick colleges now with high
default rates out of the out of the loan
system. They have gotten rid of negative
amortizations. One of the uh one of the
frustrating things about student loan
borrowers was that because in previous
administrations, the repayment plans
that were based on a percentage of your
income were set so low that people were
even some of them were not were paying
zero uh because you had to earn a
certain amount of uh money before you
know a loan payment obligation even
kicked in. But what happened was then
they would for bookkeeping purposes or
whatever they would negatively amortize
the loan. So all your unpaid interest
was going into your debt principal and
it was getting bigger and bigger.
>> Just recap.
>> Yes. Even if you were even if you were
making some payment, you're got
frustrated because your debt was getting
bigger and bigger. That's all gone away
with now. Negative amorization has been
abolished. Everybody has to pay at least
$10 a month. I don't think that's
unreasonable. If you got a loan from
taxpayers, even if you're struggling,
you can pay $10 a month. And then
there's uh and then so if you and if
that payment is so low, if your income
driven payment is so low that you're not
covering your interest, the government
will pay $50 a month to lower your
principal. So long as you're making at
least $10 a month, your principal will
go down each month. And I think this
will be it's simpler and will provide
better incentives to keep make loan
payments, keep up the loan payments
because you'll actually be able to see
the principal going down. So I give
credit and in full disclosure my son
who's a fellow at the AEI was was also
heavily involved in this. So uh he's a
chip off the old block though we think a
lot when it comes to student yeah
simplification more accountability and
those are the things that this bill uh
accomplished. So I'm I'm hoping that
this gets straightened up and people are
having to pay now but the transition to
going from not paying for years you know
and Trump did that too. We had this what
three or four year long moratorum.
People are going to have to pay now.
It's going to hurt. They haven't made
room in their budget for these loan
payments.
>> Well, $10 a month isn't isn't
>> it's not huge. No, it's
>> And if the government is kicking in 50.
>> Yeah.
>> I mean, it's not a ton of money, but
it's still what, $600 a year?
>> Um, have we done enough to resolve the
student debt crisis or No.
>> What What else can we do to move this
along?
>> Yeah. Well, I I do think there needs to
be more accountability for colleges uh
to assume something the schools
themselves.
>> Yes. The colleges themselves because
this is this was it was the classic
misaligned economic incentive. So with
the best of intentions, the Congress
said, "Okay, now from now on all the
student loans are going to be made, you
know, pretty much all of them are going
to be made um by the government because
we're worried the banks are not treating
borrowers as well as they should. So,
we're going to be doing this and then
the the colleges themselves will
basically originate the loan. So, you
apply to a college and the college
financial aid office will come up with a
financial aid package and they will
calculate how much you need to borrow to
go to their school. Well, now what are
their incentives? You know, they're
going to get the money. You're buying
for a tuition room and board. So,
they're they're going to get the money.
They're not on the hook if the student
can't repay the loan. So, what do you
think's going to happen? And and what
happened exactly as you could have
predicted it inflation you know with
tuition you know many multiples what
>> 9% a year for 40 years
>> for whatever. Yeah. So tuition is as any
parent knows or student knows has
skyrocketed
>> become very unaffordable without
borrowing and uh but you know there was
all this easy money and the gra the
undergraduate is problem with the
graduate schools you know a lot of young
people then sold a bill of goods to get
a master's or a PhD because there unlike
undergraduate loans there is some caps
on your federal loans but no effective
caps that's been changed now too there
are some caps thank goodness on your
graduate professional schools you know
so somebody like me oh I'm going to go
get a PhD in philosophy so I can teach,
right? So I pay $300,000 to get my PhD
in philosophy and get a job maybe
paying60,000 a year at some small
college. Well, that makes sense. But I
think that's happened to a lot of people
and uh and I don't think
you know I don't absolve the borrow
either. They should have known better.
But the schools let this happen. These
these graduate professional schools can
be real money makers. they are the
graduate schools in particular real
money makers for colleges and the
degrees are frequently uh do not enhance
the earnings potential of the student.
>> So do you have any hope that students
are are in a better shape uh financially
going forward or is this still very
problematic and needs more help?
>> I think things are getting better and a
lot of it is something else that Trump
the first Trump administration did which
Biden continues and the and the current
Trump administration continues is to
publish post-graduate outcomes. So you
can go on college scoreboard now and put
in a college and a degree that you may
be thinking about it and you can see
what the graduates are actually making
and you can find out the graduation
rate, you can find out the retention
rate, you can find out all sorts of
information that will tell you is that
college graduating students and are they
getting job good jobs after they leave?
And so I think more and more uh parents
and student advisors uh high school
college advisors are using those tools
or more um uh calculators too that are
based on help you figure out how much
you can borrow based on what your
post-graduate income will likely be in
that field at that college. So there is
more awareness and then I think a lot of
you know ironically this is coming back
to bite a lot of the colleges now
because I think it got so expensive
people are starting to take a second
look well do I really need to go to
college you know for so long there was
all this social pressure to go to
college I was a college president I've
taught at university I think it's a
wonderful experience but it's not for
everybody and you don't have to do it
and there's no stigma if you don't do it
you know you might want to go directly
into the workforce learn on the job you
might want to go to a trade school there
are you know community colleges uh got
to be careful there too but many of them
provide really good uh you know
education that's less expensive and a
shorter duration so I think uh students
and their parents are also thinking more
broadly that they don't have to go to
college there may be other options
available
>> la last question about uh college and
education
we have thousands and thousands of of
universities and colleges uh do we have
too many
>> too many yeah probably are we going to
lose 10 or 20% of the college base over
the next decade?
>> We probably will. And I think the the
the the
part of it that's really really
struggling now are the private liberal
arts schools.
>> And they they became too pricey. And I I
think that's sad because I used to be
the president of one of those colleges.
And I think they do offer very special
educational experience. A very, you
know, it's it's more hightouch. It's
more, you know, for some, you know,
going to college when you're 17, 18
years old can be pretty traumatic. You
never been away from home, you know, and
so, so students that small intimate
college environment was a good option,
but they're really struggling now. And
so I think we'll still have them, but I
think there'll be a lot of consolidation
there. And then it's the weaker schools.
You know, if they're not proving their
worth, they're going to they're going to
close probably.
>> Really really fascinating. So, you went
from writing a crisis memoir for adults
to totally the opposite direction, basic
financial literacy for children. Um,
what made you decide to aim uh in
between at young adults and teenagers?
>> Well, actually, it was my editor who uh
you know, everybody when I first started
running the uh the picture books,
everybody said, "Oh, this is too, you
know, elementary school children are too
young for this." And they're not. They
absolutely and the books have sold well
and and they they totally get it. But my
my publisher, everybody said you need to
write a book for teenagers and my
publisher um thought that was a good
idea as well. And so I thought about it
and I thought yeah because you know
there's more and more financial
education being required in high schools
and I I want I'm concerned that as
schools start offering these courses
that there's you know good quality
accurate content. there's a lot of
people out there providing financial,
you know, a lot of people on social
media, a lot of curricula, you know,
sponsored by industry groups. And so I
thought, well, you know, I'm gonna I'm
gonna throw my hat in here to try to
provide just some basic financial advice
to teenagers as they're entering
adulthood. So that's that was the I will
have to say my uh my publishers
initiative, but I think it was a good
idea and I'm pleased with the way they
came book came out. So, so I'm glad you
brought up social media. Gen Z and
what's the new generation after them?
Generation alpha.
>> Someone said generation Jones is another
one. I can't keep up with it. But they
all seem to get a lot of financial
advice from Instagram and YouTube and
and Tik Tok rather than
>> uh let's say more professional uh
experienced folks, right? um how did
that impact how you thought about
reaching uh this age group and and how
did it shape the tone of of your book?
>> Yeah, so it was uh I did want to get
some accurate information out there
because there's a big theme of this book
is you know I say in the introduction
building wealth is not hard. You need to
establish a regular saving investing
habit and you need to avoid debt. That's
really what you need to do. And uh and
uh but there's so much advice that's
just the opposite. And especially on
social media, it pushes debt. You know,
well, why bother with an ice safe index
fund? You can go borrow some money and
buy a rental property and make way, you
know, way more returns than No, no, no,
no. So, but there's crazy stuff like
that or or borrowing to invest in crypto
or Mim stocks or, you know, gambling,
you know, and the kids are getting
confused about the difference between
gambling and investing. They're very
different things. So, I wanted to to
provide some correctives to that and
then just basically also address and
flag
common financial behaviors that cost
people money like carrying a credit card
balance that I'm very open in my first
chapter about my I totally got in
trouble with credit card debt. I was
just just graduated from law school. I
was a civil rights lawyer then. Didn't
know anything about finance. Didn't
care. Thought it was beneath me. I
needed to uh you know buy some clothes
for work. I needed to get a an apartment
and furnishing my apartment as I was
getting all these solicitations from
various credit card issuers who had
found out that I was now, you know,
working for a living somehow. So, yeah,
I got in trouble with credit card debt.
And I made that minimum payment. I
thought, "Wow, this is great. I can
borrow this money and just this tiny
little payment every month." And I ended
up I think it was about $6,000 in
interest when all was said and done.
>> Oh my god, that's a lot.
>> Well, yeah. Which if it invested in the
S&P 500 would be worth around $240,
$250,000 now. So, there you go. So, but
I think uh you know just avoiding things
like that, the average family pays 1,600
a year in credit card interest. If that
was just put into an S&P 500 index fund,
boy, you know, over 30 or 40 years,
that's you're talking real money.
>> So, uh that was I I wanted to emphasize
that the simplicity of of how to build
wealth. Compounding opportunity costs
are big themes. Those are I think those
are so fundamental to understanding how
to manage money. And um but you
basically I just want to help kids avoid
mistakes. I don't want them to have
financial problems when they grow up. I
want them to get off on a on the good on
the right foot, which I did not and a
lot of people don't.
>> So, so you mention a couple of really
interesting things that um taken
together uh Howard Linden runs a venture
fund and he calls it the degenerate
economy. gambling, speculation, end of
day options, mean stocks, crypto coins.
>> Yeah.
>> And all of these uh have been through
through apps and other methods because
of the phones have been adopted by
teenagers and mass. What do you make of
the DGEN economy and what does it mean
to the
>> future health of of these uh young
adults? Well, it's very dangerous and
it's particularly a problem with young
boys and oh by the way they shouldn't be
doing this if they're under 18, but a
lot of them are as we know they're
targeted and they uh they don't
understand that the worth of money that
the apps just make it so easy and don't
you know they don't make the connection
between the financial losses they're
experiencing. It's a game for them and
and the industry advertises they they do
gify it. So, and even, you know, stock
trading, some of these online brokers, a
big ones, they they gify it. And it's
not a game. It's it's serious. Money is
serious. And, uh, I think one of the
things from early on, if parents give
their children allowances, but tie that
to work, I think it's really important
for kids to understand early on the
connection between work and money. It's
not just free easy, you know, because
too many kids don't make that connection
and their parents are genous with the
credit cards or whatever. and uh and
they use their credit card numbers to do
all these gaming apps and um and I just
don't think it the reality of what these
kids are doing actually uh sinks in
until they're really in over their head.
Uh and I think it's purposeful. I think
you know kids don't understand the
difference between gambling and
investing. Well, there's a big
difference and you're investing. You're
supporting capital formation and the
real economy helping businesses who make
real goods and real services raise money
and operate or supporting the secondary
market that enables all of that.
And what are you supporting with
gambling or crypto? I mean some crypto
to the extent it it represents the
technology I think crypto technology is
is very valuable but these these these
um you know these different currencies
and tokens they have nothing.
>> You can call them shitcoins I call them
shitcoins because that's there's nothing
behind them. I'm amazed that bitcoin has
held up. I think it's just you know it's
kind of the granddaddy of them all. So
if you're going to invest most people do
a bitcoin because they they've heard
about it and the rest of it is crap.
Bitcoin maybe too, but it has lasted. I
will give it that. But um yeah, I mean,
what are they supporting? And they're
losing money. You know, there's a there
was a study done of gambling apps that
showed that the people that use gambling
apps, only 5% take out more money than
they put in. And it's addictive. And
these these gambling platforms, if they
even if you start winning, well, oh,
you're doing great. Here's a little
money. Why don't you keep going? You
know, they want you to keep going until
you start losing money because the odds
are you will always lose money. And
Bloomberg came out with some great
research recently on prediction markets.
75% of the profits, I believe, are going
to 1% of the year. Less than 1% less
than 1%. It's crazy. It's so
>> It's funny. The whole game is rigged.
Well, even active trading of stocks,
very few people can do that and make
make money
>> consistently over.
>> Yeah. and you're going to be going
against people who do it for a living.
They have a lot more access to data and
expertise and you know algorithms and
all the things all the tools you will
not have when you try to actively trade
stocks.
>> So, so this is kind of fascinating. I
bet most people don't know how much of a
passion project this has been for you so
long. Am I Did I read this correctly?
You established the financial education
division within the Treasury Department.
I did the office early in 2001. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I did. I I established
the office of financial education and
it's grown now. It's in the treasur's
office now and I think they hel they
they hold a group. It's called fleck and
it's basically a council of all the
different financial education uh
components of the various different
regulatory agencies and it's a good
group. Yeah, I did start it. That's that
one of the things that got me interested
and uh I and actually my first book was
was pre-crisis with Rock and the Savings
Shock. actually came out in 2006 because
based on that experience, it inspired me
to start writing uh kids books because I
became aware that there really weren't
any resources for elementary age.
>> So, so how not to lose a million dollars
covers basics like savings account,
student loans, debt avoidance,
>> and retirement planning. It kind of
raises a question,
>> why aren't we teaching our kids
financial fundamentals
>> at the grade school level? Why why is
this not just part of civics? And yeah.
Yeah.
>> Well, it can and should be. I mean, I I
think there's a big movement now to have
a standalone high school uh personal
finance class, which I think is good,
but it really it needs to be more than
that. It needs to be every year. It
needs to be introduced. And you know,
math curricula is an obvious place
because I think it makes ma it will make
math more interesting to kids. If you do
use money examples, right? So, uh you
want to learn about ratios and
percentages. let's talk about
compounding and how much your money
grows at 4% interest a year or whatever.
So, uh it does need to be introduced
every year. And um and again, that's one
of the reasons my books are and they're
supplements to curricula. I don't write
educational curricula, but they
certainly could be assigned readings to
go with those those classroom efforts.
And I think that's important. And the
kids get it. They're interested in it.
They absolutely get it. They're not too
young. One of my favorite parts of the
BBB was the new newborn accounts Trump
accounts. Yeah,
>> the baby bonds which Corey uh Booker
started talking about. Drone a blank on
the name of the venture capitalist who
suggested something like this years ago.
>> But it's only $1,000 to every newborn in
an investment account.
>> Yeah.
>> Is this a good start? Is this going to
help kids learn about money?
>> Yeah. Uh it absolutely is. Uh it's I
think you know it's only for there's a
three-year period where children are
born within a three-year period we'll
get the thousand dollars but it can be
matched by employers. A lot of employers
who
>> we're hearing already Dell and JP Morgan
and a bunch of big employers announced
they'll do a thousand match and the
assumption is this will be renewed after
three years.
>> I I hope so. I hope it is. I'm, you
know, I'm kind of a fiscal uh
conservative when it comes to our
deficits, but I think this is a good way
to spend the money uh because it goes
directly. You know where it's going. You
know it's helping. And it is it's a
wonderful way to learn about the power
of compounding. Congress mandated that
the money has to be invested in
broad-based index funds, which is good,
you know, or we'd be seeing crypto and
metocks or whatever. So, that's that's
good. But you can see over time how it
will grow. And I hope, you know, when
they're 18, they can they can take it
out. But I hope they leave it there and
it just converts into a regular IRA at
that point. But u it's it's a great it's
a wonderful financial educational tool
as well as some additional financial
security for low-income families and
their children.
>> So let let's talk about another aspect
of money that's so different today than
it was when we were kids.
Money is effectively invisible.
uh credit cards, apps, buy now pay later
subscriptions, all there there have been
studies that have shown that if you give
people a pile of cash to spend or a
credit card loaded with the same amount,
they spend more with the credit card
than with actually paying,
>> you know, greenbacks, which says a lot
about the psychology of,
>> you know, modern spending. It does. So,
so how do you how do we recognize that?
And how do we teach kids the value of a
dollar? It's it's it's really a
challenge when you just tap the card and
it's magic.
>> It's it's not real money. It's funny
money. Yeah. Well, that's what you I
think it's important to attach an
allowance to jobs. I think helping kids
make the connection between having to
work and earning money is really really
important because the parents are too
generous. They let them use their credit
card. So that's they start getting that
easy usage and if they're using their
parents credit card they're not having
to it's not causing them any pain to
spend money. So I think the parents can
control a lot of this but the the kids
need to understand the connection
between earning money and spending money
and if they make that connection they
will be more judicious and careful with
their money because they realize how
dear it is because it took that $10 took
an hour of their life raking leaves or
whatever you know. So I I think it's
it's important uh to make that
connection. Um, and financial education,
understanding, you know, I have a
chapter on I spend a lot of time on
credit cards because I think it is an
early trap for a lot of families and a
lot of kids because it's just so easy.
And BMPL is the same thing. BMPL, I
don't like it.
>> Buy now, pay later.
>> Buy now, pay later. The whole idea is to
facilitate impulse buying. Let's face
it. You know, you're using BMPL when
it's really beyond your budget to buy.
You weren't thinking about buy it. You
don't really have the money now to buy
it, but you really want it. And that's
what BMPL does. And there, you know,
BMPL users, a very high percentage of
them, uh, you know, first of all, it's
not interest free fee because it ends up
going on your credit card because you
can't pay it off. So, you're just
carrying the balance on your credit card
or it's coming out of your checking
account and you overdraft and you get an
overdraft fee. So, it's not really, they
say it's interest rate. For a lot of
users, it's not really. It gets them in
a financial.
>> When we were kids, it was called
layaway.
>> That's right. And you didn't get the
good or idol until you paid it off and
you very much understood I got to shovel
more more sidewalks or or more more
lawns if I want that bike or whatever it
happened to be. Exactly. It it was this
is the opposite lesson.
>> It is. It it totally is. Um and I you
know so I think it feeds a lot of
overspending. I think impulse I you know
kids are making decision decisions more
impulsively. I mean they don't have the
same impulse control adults have and and
I think you know people know that
retailers know that commercial entities
know that. So they they try to encourage
them to make snap decisions to to buy
something. And it just it's so
important. I I have a rule wait a week
uh when my chapter on budgeting about
buying things. Just wait a week. You
know there's certain things you have to
buy your needs like your rent or
whatever.
>> But if if it's your wants
first of all don't buy any want that's
not within your budget. And even if you
do, wait a week. You know, just don't
buy it on impulse. Wait a week. Come
back to it. Do you really want to or
not? When I go into grade schools and do
readings, I my common question is raise
your hand if you've ever bought
something you wish you hadn't bought.
>> Every hand goes up.
>> Every hand goes up. Every hand goes up.
It's amazing. Yeah. Already, you know,
at seven years old, they're got buyer
remorse. It's usually junky toys. What
what I speaking of junky toys, when
there's a car I fixate on,
>> my little hack is I'll buy one of the
diecast models and put it on my shelf.
So for 60 bucks,
>> I like all right, I feel like, all
right, I I have a little experience with
this car. And after a few weeks, it's
like, all right, I have the toy. I'm
good. I don't need to spend $100,000 on
another stupid thing for the garage.
>> Well, that's right. There's there's
there's a chapter on buying a car, too.
I just bought a buy I just bought a car,
actually, a used car. I didn't want to
they pushed so fast. This is going to be
a second car. But this this I couldn't
believe it. I mean, I knew this. I've
had experience in the past. It been a
while since I bought a car. He was
trying to upsell me with everything. And
now they're trying to sell me, give me
all these service contracts that would
increase the price of the car by about
25%.
>> It's just it's just unbelievable that
that you know, kids want to buy cars.
They want their own car. That
>> I don't think that's true anymore. Well,
maybe not.
>> Lot lot of kids aren't getting licenses.
They can Uber wherever on mom. I think
that's true.
>> Right. And it it's there seem although
there is um a renaissance of kids
buying,
let's call them 20-year-old analog as
opposed to digital cars with stick with
stick shifts. Really? There's a whole
generation of new car enthusiasts coming
up that
>> um I think a stick shift today is an
anti- theft device cuz
>> you know you bring it to a valet they
look at you go to a restaurant they're
like would you mind pulling it in over
there? Yeah. Okay. That's funny. But
it's really true it and it's good
because you know cars are expensive. The
average monthly payment is what like 700
a month you know for a young boy car.
>> It's $1,000 a month is not uncommon on a
lease. Yeah.
>> And kids don't understand why. Hey, no
down payment. Well, yeah, but no no no
residual at the end. You hand it back.
That's right.
>> It's just the cost.
>> That's exactly right. Yeah. So, yeah,
it's really expensive for person to buy
a car if they can avoid that.
>> So, so I only have you for a few more
minutes. So, let me jump to my favorite
questions I ask all my guests. Starting
with tell us about your mentors who
helped shape this career you've enjoyed
through academia uh finance and
government.
>> Yeah.
>> Well Bob Dole obviously stands out. He
was really um he really taught me what
public service meant and he was always
focused on the public interest. He was a
populist in the good sense. You know he
was from a small uh rural town in
Kansas. He was horribly injured during
World War II. Laid up for years. as the
town's people rallied, supported him,
got him back to health, uh, helped him
become who he became. So, he was really,
he really focused on on the public. And
I learned that and I think later in my
career and at the FDIC, we we kept that
focus on the public, the people who are
using the banks, not the banks. Who are
we helping? We're helping the people who
use banks. So, I I'm proud of that. And
uh, I learned a lot from him. You know,
later I got to know Paul Vulker. I
learned a lot from him. Uh, I Yeah,
that's right. Um, Elizabeth Dole was
someone I never really had a chance to
work with her, but I knew her through
through the Senator Bob and uh have
maintained uh contact with her over
years. Another woman who inspired me,
not a mentor, but Sen Okconor, the first
woman uh Supreme Court justice when I
was on the judiciary committee, I got to
handle her confirmation and oh, she was
just a lovely person. So, a lot of
people um I've met uh over the years,
but Dole really stands out as as my uh
my uh prime supporter and mentor in my
career.
>> Yeah.
>> Let's talk about books. What are you
reading now? What are some of your
favorites?
>> Yeah, so I love murder mysteries. I'm
reading Anthony Horowitz's new book, A
Deadly Episode. Um I know Anthony
Horowitz, he's a British uh mystery.
>> I know the name. My wife is a fan of
those, so she burns through those.
>> Yeah, he's quite prolific. Yeah, he he
was, you know, he he was actually chosen
by the Ian Fleming estate to continue
writing, but he's written, too. They're
really good. Yeah, I actually like
>> owned by Amazon.
That's right.
>> So, um, so yeah. And then I'm reading uh
John Hersy's Hiroshima. Uh, my family
and I are going to Japan at the end of
the month and I wanted to take Yeah.
Yeah. And I the kids kind of balked. I
said, "We're going to go to Hiroshima
because I think that's an important part
of history. You need to we need to see
this and and understand it." And I read
Hiroshima uh when I was young, you know,
probably, you know, high school, I
think, when it came out.
>> And uh and it had such an impact on me.
And so I'm reading again and it still
has an impact on me and especially
everything going on in the world now on
other countries, even Japan talking
about wanting to have a nuclear
capability because things just don't
seem very unsettled on that square right
now. So that's those are my two I
usually have two books going, one
non-fiction and one fiction. So
>> So I'm going to recommend a book to you.
which is really kind of fascinating.
>> An American who's a professor somewhere
in in the UK,
>> uh Brian Klauss with two A's.
>> And the book is called Fluke. And the
book starts with this story
>> of a young couple honeymooning in
coyoto.
>> Later in life, the husband becomes the
head of the war department. Um, and when
we have to figure out where to drop the
Abomb, he absolutely vetos
Kyoto and Hiroshima is what gets what
gets
>> because this couple went there for a
honeymoon.
>> Oh,
>> that country that city is spared and
then it wasn't supposed to be Nagasaki.
It was in I don't remember what city it
was, but there was cloud cover and they
couldn't back then you were doing visual
reads, right? You couldn't see, so they
went to the secondary target. And so
think about talk about flukes how random
>> things are. So Hiroshima gets it because
>> somebody went there on a honeymoon
honeymoon.
>> Just crazy.
>> Well, and now you look back and why did
any city get it? Couldn't you drop it
over the ocean or something? You want to
make a point? I mean, really, I don't
it's hard for me to understand now. I
know. And that's just, you know, we're
not there at the time. There was a lot
of
>> the psychology
so different. And the Japanese had been
everybody been horrible, but the
Japanese had done some brutal things.
>> Well, for centuries.
>> Yeah. Well, okay. All right.
>> Speak to speak to China and Korea. They
are not I'm a
>> I'm a big fan of Japan.
>> Yeah. But
>> but they were quite a ruthless empire
for a long time.
>> Yeah. So there was a lot of um so I
understand that and I think well maybe
the horror of it when you know and the
and I think that's why John Hershey's
book was so important because it really
underscored the horror of it but maybe
because people then understood how
horrible it was it made it even less
likely anybody would ever use it again.
I'm I'm going to rationalize it that
way. But it is hard. You know, you look
back and oh my gosh, did we really have
to do that to people because it was it
was not just the people who probably
were killed immediately were the lucky
ones. The radiation sickness after the
horrors.
>> I think I signed that same book in in
high school and
>> everybody read it
>> and plowed through it and it was just
>> it was Yeah. No, it's very well written.
It was Yeah.
>> Let's shift to uh Are you streaming
anything these days? You listen to any
podcast or watching anything? Yeah, I
don't stream or podcast that much. I get
podcaster. I like to read transcripts of
podcast because I can read a lot. I can
listen. Yeah.
>> How about Netflix or HBO?
>> Yeah. I can't, you know, I'm I'm you
know, one note on this murder BBC. I'm
there. You know, I love the Bradbox.
Yeah. The uh all the all the Agathos
Christies I've seen the the David Sush
ro are by far the best. Uh Foils War was
great. Also Anthony Horow was uh the he
did the uh um the
>> made it into a series or a movie.
>> Uh which one? The tho were actually that
was that was a TV series. It wasn't a
book. That was one of the few things.
But it's it's it's it's really good.
>> Um I like the the Morse. You know, have
you ever watched Morse? Uh Inspector
Morse? No. That's a famous be on PBS at
one point.
>> Yeah. Yeah. It's old, but there were
three. Morse and then Endeavor, which
was about Morse when he was younger, and
then Lewis, who was Morse's sidekick. So
BBC did a really good job there. So
yeah, these are old stuff. I recycle
them. But yeah, I I love I love BBC and
I love British I love Brit Box, excuse
me. I love them.
>> Our final two questions. Um, what sort
of advice would you give to a recent
college grad interested in a career in
banking or finance or government
service?
>> Yeah. Well, I would say be open-minded
because I think uh the job market is,
you know, we don't know AI is kind of
having a negative impact on entry- level
white collar jobs. So, they're you need
to be thoughtful about that and how to
navigate that. So, I think you need to
be open-minded, but preferably if you
have options, you know, pick pick a
company that has a good culture. I, you
know, ask them how they think about
their customers, right? If they're an
investment firm and they talk about them
like muppets, you probably don't want to
work there. But if they talk talk about
them as
>> I remember muppets remember
>> just to mention an example. So I think I
think it's important any business
actually whether it's finance or any
real economy business how they think
about their customers and treat their
customers because I do think long-term
success is based on having a mutually
beneficial relationship with your
customers. So I would uh you know just
the work ethic um and but and again keep
an open mind. Sometimes things you
weren't even thinking about uh come up
and they turn out to be really really
good job choices.
>> And our final question, what is it that
you know about the world of
banking regulations, government service,
financial industry today? Might have
been useful to know way back when when
you were first getting started.
>> Yeah, I thought about that. Um markets,
right? Not personal finance, but
markets. Clearly, credit card.
>> Go whichever way you want.
>> Yeah. Well, compounding was something I
did not uh understand and credit card
>> that comes up surprisingly frequently
because it's not intuitive.
>> Yeah. No, it's not. And the the daily
compounding is, you know, it it it racks
up pretty quickly. I think for markets,
financial markets and investing in
particular, uh I I've actually done
pretty well over time. I was my
grandmother gave me $1,000
when um she was getting later in life uh
near her death and she didn't have much
but she wanted to give my sister and I
something so she gave me $1,000 and told
me to put it in an IRA. That was back
when IRAs had just gotten started
>> and with my dad's help I put it in the
contrad. It's worth a lot of money now.
So I I've made some lucky I've I've
stuck mainly I've picked a few stocks
but I've picked mainly diversified uh
index funds of various sorts. And I wish
I'd understand better about being brave
during the dips though, you know. I
think I usually I I buy and hold. So I
don't I don't sell when the market's
going down, which is the worst thing you
can do. But I think I would have been a
little more courageous buying in the
dips, you know,
>> buying more into into weakness. Yeah.
Well Well, Sheila, thank you for being
so generous with your time as always. A
delight. We have been speaking with
Sheila Bear, former chair of the FDI,
author of the new book, How Not to Lose
a Million Dollars. If you enjoy this
conversation, well, check out any of the
600 we've done over the past 12 years.
You can find those at iTunes, Spotify,
YouTube, Bloomberg, wherever you find
your favorite podcast. I would be remiss
if I didn't thank the Crack staff that
helps put these conversations together
each week. Alexis Noriega is my video
producer. Sean Russo is my researcher.
Uh, Anna Luke is my podcast producer.
I'm Barry Brhultz. You've been listening
to Masters in Business on Bloomberg
Radio.